Hi! Deciphering the skullos is pretty weird, but kinda easy once you get the hang of it!

Basically take the skullos word and see if u can find any individual "mini" words inside of it. I call these the "roots"  of the word personally. Nost of the time there are multiple "roots" within a word that make up the definition. 

You can decipher the definistion of the word by either actually using your crosswords trivia language brain, or by literally brute forcing it- splitting the word in half, trying the first half in the search bar and if that doesn't work, try more or less letters. :]

Normally you can search for the easiest by searching your "root" word with the word roots, origin or etymology (the study of the origin of words and they way in which their meaning has changed throughout  history)

Skullos uses a variety of different roots for the "roots", like Latin, Greek etc. It also uses backgrounds of different monster languages. (This means if there is a part within the word that you can't find any historical links to in the search bar, you can most likely assume it's from a monster language.)

Also commonly, there will be a suffix to connect "roots" together in a way that makes it readable! So sometimes the ending of a "root" will be changed from its original word in order for it to fit within the skullos word!

Also because this is skullos, a different language, letters may also be replaced while still meaning the same thing. :>

I do believe there's also a thing with pronouns regarding the words? This post explains it better <3

Sorry that was ALOTTTT of information...

And it probably didn't make that much sense to read? (Srry)

So here's an example that maybe can help explain this better! I swear it's pretty simple once ubget the hang of it :)

So here we have the word "stulcaputa"

By splitting this word in "half" (I say this in quotation marks as its not exactly in half, but almost.)

When we choose where to split words, try and look to "unnatural" letter placing. Two consonants like L and C next to eachother, while not unheard of, are quite weird. So that's where we split it. 

Now we are left with "stul" and "caputa"

If we go with "caputa" and stick it in the search bar with the word etymology, we get this!

Now if we ignore the ai, because fuck ai, it won't give you the right answer most of the time and it's stupid and ndissika- ANYWAYS.

If we look at the Wikipedia at the bottom we can see the etymology for the name "caputo", which while is not the same as "caputa"

When we remove the letter "a" at the end we get caput which matches up with the description at the bottom!

And with a little bit of more searching to justttt confirm our little description...

We can assume that "caputa" means head!

NOW

Onto the "stul" bit!

Now here we get a word that we can't really find any information for online (nothing that is related to stools or tables atleast). 

So instead if we try searching for the word stul with a specific origin like in this case Latin. (Which is one of the more common roots)

And then we go for a bit of a scroll, we come across the word "stultus"

Stul- tus? See what's happening hereeee? 

This then leads us to this discovery 

Now by combining the two definitions together we get...

 foolish/ stupid- head !

(This is not meant to be a dig at you omygosh I'm now realising this omygosg I'm so sorry, I fully just chose the first example I saw I could direct and it was this. PLEASE, IM TIRED AND MY BRAIN ISNT WORKING ajaiahakakq)

Ok! Now if we take this definition and replace it with the skullos word. We must now ask ourselves if within the context of this dialogue this definition makes sense.

And in this case papyrus insulting sans is very in context. :]

Ofc if you really are stuck on a word/ root and you don't wanna give or you might want a Hint or two...

Literally scroll through the blog, look for other places the same "roots" or words are used. What's similar? What's different? What's the context to this word being used in? These are big hints in allowing you to understand what the word might mean.

Lately Ali Anne has been providing translations for the skullos! So, see of u can match up Ur "root" or word to the translation. 

:>

Hope that helps!

Sorry it was LOONGGGG almost unreadable yap, if you did get through that till this point... um thank u ☆♡ ^^

And thanks for the fun ask!!!
